---
title: "Data Visualization Literacy Education in Museum Setting"
collection: talks
type: "Talk"
permalink: /talks/2012-03-01-talk-1
venue: "UC San Francisco, Department of Testing"
date: 2021-03-01
location: "San Francisco, California"
---

AISL CNS “Data Visualization Literacy: Research and Tools that Advance
Public Understanding of Scientific Data, Funded by National Science
Foundation (#1713567) 
Investigators: Katie Börner, Kylie Peppler, Bryan Kennedy, Stephen Uzzo, and Joe
Heimlich, Indiana University, 2019-2020.

This Innovations in Development AISL project is motivated by the insight that in the information age, being able to “read and write” data visualizations is becoming as important as being able to read and write text, and that in the digital information age, being able to create and interpret data visualizations is an important literacy for the public. The research will seek to define, measure, and advance data visualization literacy.

The project will engage the public in using the xMacrocope at the science museum and research center of the Science Museum of Minnesota and at the Center of Science and Industry (COSI) in Columbus, Ohio. In both museum settings the public will interact with the Sportsology exhibit, where they produce different datasets of their personal attributes and capabilitie. Using the xMacroscope platform, they will then manipulate that data, creating diverse types of visualizations.

A collaborative effort between the Creativity Labs and Indiana University.

Han, A., Keune, A., Huang, J., & Peppler, K., (2022). Visualizing Family Engagement in
Museum Settings. In: J. Oshima, T. Mochizuki, & Y. Hayashi (Eds.) International
Collaboration toward Educational Innovation for All: International Society of the
Learning Sciences (ISLS) Annual Meeting 2022 (pp. 1094-1095). Hiroshima, Japan:International Society of the Learning Sciences. 

Peppler, K., Keune, A., & Han, A. (2021). Cultivating data visualization literacy in
museums. Information and Learning Sciences, 122(1/2), 1–16.
[https://doi.org/10.1108/ILS-04-2020-0132](https://www.emerald.com/insight/content/doi/10.1108/ILS-04-2020-0132/full/html)  

Peppler, K., Keune, A., & Han, A. J. (2020). Civic engagement with visualizing
data in science museums. In M. Gresalfi & I. Horn (Eds.), The interdisciplinarity	of the
learning sciences: International Conference of the Learning Sciences
(ICLS) 2020. Nashville, TN: International Society of the Learning Sciences.

Peppler, K., Keune, A., & Han, J.A. (July 2020). Data Visualization Exploration in
Science Museums. Connected Learning Summit (CLS), July 29-31, 2020,
Cambridge, MA.

Peppler, K., Keune, A., & Han, A. J. (2019) AISL II CNS Phase 1 Learning
Science Research Report. Project deliverable for National Science Foundation
project #1713567.

