---
title: "Understand teachers, parents, and students perspectives towards generative AI"
permalink: /talks/2013-03-01-tutorial-1
date: 2023-01-01
location: "Irvine CA, USA"
---

The viral launch of new generative AI (GAI) systems, such as ChatGPT and Text-to-Image (TTL) generators, sparked questions about how they can be effectively incorporated into writing education. However, it is still unclear how teachers, parents, and students perceive and suspect GAI systems in elementary school settings. We conducted a workshop with families with children ages 8 to 12 and interviewed teachers in order to understand each stakeholder’s perspectives and opinions on GAI systems for learning and teaching writing. We found that the GAI systems could be beneficial in generating adaptable teaching materials for teachers, enhancing ideation, and providing students with personalized, timely feedback. However, there are concerns over authorship, students’ agency in learning, and uncertainty concerning bias and misinformation. In this article, we discuss design strategies to mitigate these constraints by implementing an adults-oversight system, balancing AI-role allocation, and facilitating customization to enhance students’ agency over writing projects. 

Han, A., Zhou, X., Cai, Z., Han, S., Ko, R., Corrigan, S., & Peppler, K. (2023). Teachers, Parents, and Students’ perspectives on Integrating Generative AI into Elementary Literacy Education. Proceedings of the SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems - CHI ’23. (Under review)
