---
title: "StoryAI: AI-powered story-authoring platform for young learners"
permalink: /talks/2014-02-01-talk-2
date: 2023-02-01
location: "Irvine, CA"
---

StoryAI is an educational content creation platform for teachers, parents, and their students in K to 8th to support scaffolded, culturally responsive, and open-ended story creation for literacy development. To support adaptive learning experiences tailored to the individual needs of each child. Our platform integrates educators-in-the-loop with AI methodologies, where educators create lessons for their students, which AI agents can carry out on their behalf. The platform generates mentor texts and AI agents that guide students through the writing process (i.e., choosing a topic, structuring their papers, receiving immediate feedback, and sharing their work with others). Educators will be able to find inspiration, ideas, and assistance in their teaching, especially in promoting the craft of writing, including comprehension and critical thinking; students will be able to gain proper guidance based on their interests and their level through child-centered exploration and open-ended writing projects with the help of AI agents.

We presented StoryAI, a text-based conversation agent to support primary school children’s (age: 8-12 years) creative writing learning at home. In this work, we (1) developed a formative study to further understand the challenges faced by primary school students’ families and educators to identify design goals; (2) refined the learning design through participatory studies with teachers; and (3) conducted a multi-day user evaluation that demonstrated the effectiveness of StoryAI in engaging children and supporting narrative writing at home. We reported how StoryAI promoted interaction in narrative writing contexts, validated the potential of using technology to support learning how to write for primary school students, and identified improvements to the system and directions for future work.


[VITAL Semi-Finalist](
https://www.vitalprize.org/en/custom/vitalprizeapplications2023/view/639)

Han, A., Zhou, X., Cai, Z., Han, S., Ko, R., Corrigan, S., & Peppler, K. (2023). Teachers, Parents, and Students' perspectives on Integrating Generative AI into Elementary Literacy Education. Proceedings of the SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems  - CHI ’23. (Under review) 

Lee, U., Han, A., Lee, J., Kim, J., Lee, E., Kim, H., & Lim, C. (2023). Prompt Aloud!: Incorporating image-generative AI into STEAM class with learning analytics using prompt data. Education and Information Technologies. [https://doi.org/10.1007/s10639-023-12150-4](https://doi.org/10.1007/s10639-023-12150-4)  

Lee, U., Han, A., Lee, J., Kim, J., Lee, E., Kim, H., & Lim, C. (2023). Implication of a Case Study using Generative AI in Elementary School: Using Stable Diffusion for STEAM Education. Association for Educational Communications & Technology (AECT). 

Han, A., & Cai, Z. (2023). Design implications of generative AI systems for visual
storytelling for young learners. Interaction Design and Children [https://doi.org/10.1145/3585088.3593867](https://doi.org/10.1145/3585088.3593867).

Han, A (2023). Implications of AI art generators to broaden visual literacy and
Creative expression for young learners International Society of the Learning
Sciences (ISLS) Annual Meeting 2023. International Society of the Learning Sciences.

Han, A., Cai, Z., Jeong, S., & Choi, S. M. (2023). AIStory: design implication of using
generative arts AI for visual storytelling. Child-Centered AI Design: Definition, Operation, and Considerations ACM CHI 2023 Workshop.  
